Previously, we learned about
how optimal policies
achieve the goal of
reinforcement learning
to obtain as
much for more as possible
in the long run.
In this video, we'll describe
the related notion of
an optimal value function,
and introduce an associated set
of Bellman equations.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to derive
the Bellman optimality equation
for the state-value function,
derive the Bellman
optimality equation
for the action-value function,
and understand how
the Bellman optimality equations
relate to the previously
introduced Bellman equations.
Recalling that for two
policies Pi_1 and Pi_2.
Pi_1 is considered as good as or
better than Pi_2 if and only if
the value under Pi_1
is greater than or
equal to the value under
Pi_2 for all states.
An optimal policy is one which as
good as or better than
every other policy.
The value function for
the optimal policy
thus has the greatest value
possible in every state.
We can express this
mathematically,
by writing that vPi star of S is
equal to the maximum value
over all policies.
This holds for every state
in our state-space.
Taking a maximum over policies
might not be intuitive.
So let's take a moment to
break down what it means.
Imagine we were to consider
every possible policy and
compute each of
their values for the state
S. The value of an optimal policy
is defined to be the largest
of all the computed values.
We could repeat this for
every state and the value of
an optimal policy would
always be the largest.
All optimal policies have
this same optimal
state-value function,
which we denote by v star.
Optimal policies also share
the same optimal
action-value function,
which is again the maximum
possible for
every state action pair.
We denote this shared action
value function by q star.
Recall the Bellman equation
for the state value function.
This equation holds for
the value function of
any policy including
an optimal policy.
By substituting
the optimal policy Pi star
into this Bellman equation,
we get the Bellman
equation for v star.
So far, we haven't
done anything special.
This is simply the Bellman
equation we introduced
previously for the specific case
of an optimal policy.
However, because this
is an optimal policy,
we can rewrite the equation
in a special form,
which doesn't reference
the policy itself.
Remember there always exists
an optimal deterministic policy,
one that selects an optimal
action in every state.
Such a deterministic
optimal policy
will assign Probability 1,
for an action that achieves
the highest value
and Probability 0,
for all other actions.
We can express this
another way by replacing
the sum over Pi star
with a max over a.
Notice that Pi star no longer
appears in the equation.
We have derived
a relationship that
applies directly
to v star itself.
We call this special form,
the Bellman optimality
equation for v star.
We can make the
same replacement in
the Bellman equation for
the action-value function.
Here the optimal policy
appears in the inner sum.
Once again, we
replace the sum over
Pi star with a max over a.
This gives us the Bellman
optimality equation for q star.
In an earlier lecture,
we discussed how
the Bellman equations form
a linear system of equations that
can be solved by
standard methods.
The Bellman's optimality
equation gives us
a similar system of equations
for the optimal value.
One natural question is,
can we solve this system in
a similar way to find the
optimal state-value function?
Unfortunately, the answer is no.
Taking the maximum over
actions is not
a linear operation.
So standard techniques
from linear algebra
for solving linear
systems won't apply.
In this course, we will
not form and solve
systems of equations
in the usual way.
Instead, we will use
other techniques based on
the Bellman equations to compute
value functions and policies.
You might be wondering why we
can't simply use Pi star in
the ordinary Bellman
equation to get
a system of linear
equations for v star.
The answer is simple.
We don't know Pi star.
If we did, then we
would have already
achieved the fundamental goal
of reinforcement learning.
If we can manage to solve
the Bellman optimality
equation for v star,
we can use the result to
obtain Pi star fairly easily.
We will see how this can
be done in the next video.
So we introduced
optimal value functions
and derive the associative
Bellman optimality equations.
The Bellman optimality
equations relate
the value of a state
or state-action pair,
to it's possible successors
under any optimal policy.
See you next time, where
we'll learn how to find
the optimal policy from
the optimal value function.